do you ever wish you were a mind reader
and could control what people thought of
you without talking out loud or do you
wish you could speak to people in a more
memorable confident way thanks to the
science of psychology there are little
things you can do to help control your
relationships and even how people
perceive you and you don't need any
magical powers to make it happen just
good old-fashioned mind tricks let's
count it down from number 10 find out if
someone is secretly looking at you
picture this you're sitting in class and
looking over your shoulder at the person
sitting behind you only to find that
they're looking out the window but you
could have sworn you felt them staring
at you if you want to learn if someone
has been looking at you try yawning no
it's not some secret code but if someone
is looking at you and you happen to you
on they won't be able to help but yawn
themselves this phenomenon is called
contagious yawning according to
Psychology Today
scientists still haven't managed to
pinpoint exactly why people yawn when
they see other people yawn but they do
know that it happens to both humans and
chimpanzees some guess it has to do with
a human's ability to empathize with
other people but no matter what the real
reason is when people see others you're
there they do it too
number 9 defuse a conflict with food
have you ever felt mad while taking a
bite out of a delicious burrito probably
not unless you ordered a burger
the point is food is a great way to calm
people down and defuse uncomfortable
situations
let's say you've gotten into an argument
with your significant other and you need
to talk to each other and hash things
out instead of going to your house or
taking a walk in the park pick a
restaurant to go and eat in once you
order food and have it in front of you
your focus will be split between the
issue at hand and the food you're about
to eat the food serves as a great
distraction and can actually relieve
tension since you'll start to care more
about the food than what you're talking
about as a bonus it's good to settle
conflicts in a place where there are
other people around so that things don't
get too heated there's nothing more
embarrassing than shouting at each other
in the middle of a nice restaurant even
if you're on an awkward first date with
someone and not fighting food can serve
as a great icebreaker focusing on that
chicken on your plate is way more
comfortable than gazing into a
stranger's eyes all night
number eight get someone to tell you
more
they say that silence is golden and when
it comes to getting someone to spill the
beans it's a winning ticket if you're in
a conversation with someone and aren't
getting the deep well thought-out
answers you were hoping for try staying
silent while they speak after you ask
the person a question stop talking and
let them answer when there's silence the
other person is more likely to talk and
fill the gap and will probably say more
than they would if you were to interject
[Music]
number seven make yourself memorable in
job interviews do you get stressed out
during job interviews
perhaps you're worried you won't stand
out enough to accompany interviewing
tons of people a sure way to stand out
from the crowd is to use the serial
position effect this is based on the
idea that people tend to remember the
first and last parts of things and not
much of the middle
imagine you're trying to memorize a list
of groceries in about ten seconds you're
likely to remember the first few and the
last couple but not much of what was in
the middle you tend to remember the
beginnings and ends of things so next
time you're on a job interview
be sure to insert your name and talk
about yourself at the beginning and end
and if all else fails you can always
wear a weird hat that can usually jog a
memory hey just kidding don't do that
number six form stronger bonds with
people do you remember feeling close to
your teammates back on the soccer or
baseball team in grade school
that's because being active with someone
can help you form stronger bonds more
quickly so if you're in a new
relationship or starting a friendship
with someone instead of going to the
movies or out to eat try doing an
activity together that can get your
blood pumping perhaps rock climbing or
even an amusement park when you get your
adrenaline going and blood pumping your
body releases endorphins this then puts
you in a better mood and makes you more
enthusiastic about whatever you're doing
in this case getting to know someone
five control people's assumptions about
you first impressions are a big deal
whether you're meeting new people at a
party or introducing yourself to your
future boss but there's a way you can
actually control a stranger's first
assumptions about you while you're
talking and getting to know each other
try to point out something you both have
in common
maybe you grew up in the same town or
you both have the same alma mater by
doing this the person you're speaking to
will base their assumptions off this
commonality since it's related to them
their assumptions of you will be more
positive this is known as the halo
effect while this requires a bit of
effort in the conversational skills
Department it's a lot better than
shouting like me like me at someone you
just met
number four make someone feel like
they're important there are a couple of
ways to do this be sure to use their
name when you're first speaking to them
when you meet someone for the first time
at a party or work event
see their name right after they
introduce yourself hi Jill nice to meet
you now continue to use their name as
you carry on a conversation this will
make them feel like you're engaged in a
conversation with them and in turn will
make them feel important another way to
help someone feel like they're special
is by using the paraphrasing technique
while you're speaking back to them for
example if your friend tells you that
she went shopping but the market was all
out of the type of bread she was looking
for repeat back Wow
they didn't even carry that kind of
bread paraphrasing what they just said
back to them lets them realize you're
really listening to what they're saying
3 get someone to help you do something
sometimes you need to ask friends or
family members for a favor but these
favors aren't always fun which makes
their willingness to help you less
likely say you need someone to feed your
cat for a couple of days while you're
out of town instead of asking the person
point-blank if they can help pose a
false dilemma say something like hey
would it be better for you to come over
and feed mr. whiskers in the early
morning or evening
the person will likely choose whichever
time is easier and they never had the
chance to say no I can't
number to get people to believe in you
if I said hey I think this next
psychology trick is really effective
would you believe me how about if I said
this next psychology trick is really
effective did you trust what I was
saying more the second time
well that's because when you put I think
at the beginning of a sentence it can
come off as hesitant or unsure even if
you aren't sure of something that
doesn't mean you should question what
you say be confident in yourself from
now on try leaving out the word I think
when you talk to your friends and family
they may take you more seriously and
even make fun of you less due to this
confident way of speaking one keep
people's attention have you ever noticed
that if you look down at your phone you
aren't hearing what the person talking
to you is saying it's a clear sign that
you're not listening for people to pay
attention to what you're saying
keep direct eye contact with them while
you're talking you'll see that your
conversations will start becoming better
and more engaging when you do this
keeping eye contact with someone can
actually convince the person you're
conversing with to believe what you're
saying
this gives you some dominance in the
conversation you can even nod while
you're making certain points to further
prove how confident you are and what
you're saying don't be surprised when
you notice the other person nodding
along with you who knows this technique
may even help you change someone's
opinion about something so pretty cool
huh do you know any other mind tricks to
help you communicate with people better
try out some of the tricks mentioned in
the video and let us know if they worked
if you found this video helpful
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
stay on the bright side
[Music]